Alright. In this video, we are going to be
reviewing the assignment to create the
vendors API. So we've been working with
that fruit shop vendors spec and we're
gonna look at implementing that. So
this is kind of a challenging assignment
because I wanted you to go in and
reinforce all the things that we've been
talking about in the course, so far as
far as Domains, Repositories, Service
Layer. I'm using DTOs. The MapStruct
Type Converters challenge you to also
use test-driven development and we wanna create a controller that's gonna
create a RESTful API for GET, POST, DELETE, GET by ID, PATCH and PUT. And we're
able to skip the product API calls.
Just a reference, come over here and take
a look at the Swagger documentation. You
can see down at the bottom of the screen,
we have the API spec for the vendors and
everything that we wanna be able to do
with that. So take a quick look at the
data model that's gonna come back, and
we're gonna have a JSON object that says
vendors and a name and then the URL
string. So that's what we want to
replicate in our API that we're
developing. So let's go over and take a
look at my implementation of this right now.
You toggle over to IntelliJ, and we can
see that I have the domain class up
there. It is an Entity, a JPA Entity, and
it's called Vendor. We have a simple id
prompt value there and just one value of
the name. So pretty simple entity that we
are dealing with, and of course, I am also
implementing a VendorRepository. And
again, I'm using the JpaRepository, which
gives us some nice features, which I hope
to explore at a future point in the
course. And so, not much there for us
to implement Spring Data. It's gonna
give us some great functionality out of
the box. And now, we also wanna follow
the DTO pattern.
And we see here that I am using
Project Lombok. And through Project
Lombok, you can see that I am using the
@Data annotation, which is gonna give
me getters and setters and equals and
hashcode. And I'm also, just for our
convenience, I'm adding in
the annotations @NoArgsConstructor and
@AllArgsConstructor. And I think I did
this on Vendor, as well. I just used @Data
there. So you could optionally add in
those annotations here. It might make
your life a little bit easier. I'm gonna
leave those off for right now. And then
also, I created a list DTO. So this is
just like what we did for customer, and
that's kind of like a wrapper object
because the API specification, if you
remember, if we take a look at it here, we
are returning back a list of vendors. So
this is that object that's gonna get
converted it into JSON for us, when we're
working with the API for a list of
vendors. And we see it's a pretty simple
mapping. The vendors property will get
mapped to the String vendors using
Jackson for us. So this works out pretty
nicely.
Next, we implement a VendorMapper.
This is a mapper implemented through
MapStruct. So this is gonna give us a
Mapper instance. Just as a reminder,
I'm gonna go in here and compile this,
and this gets created off of compiling.
So if you ever run in to something
funny, go ahead and compile the project
if you're missing the Mapper instance.
And if I come down here, just as a
reminder if we come down to target and
we can look at generated-sources, we
can see that here's our implementation
that MapStruct is providing for us. So I
really like MapStruct. It's a great
time-saver.
If you're able to use it our project,
I highly recommend checking it out. It's
got some really cool capabilities. And of
course, I have a test for that. Let's go
ahead and take a look at that.
You can see here, I just have a very
simple mapping test. Go ahead and run
this. And I really like this little
feature in IntelliJ. This is a fairly recent
addition to IntelliJ, it's being able to
run the test right out of the gutter or
the source code. And we can see that it's
pretty simple test.
I do recommend trying to set up tests on
your mappers. Make sure that you're doing
the data mappings correctly. I've seen a
lot of errors happen in this area.
Then next up is we have the VendorService implementation. This is gonna
list the methods that we are going to be
using from the controller layer. This
gives us the service and let's go ahead
and take a look at the service
implementation of that. And you can see,
this is gonna look a lot like what we
did for the CategoryService. So very
similar, but now we're working with
vendors. Same basic operations here. Now, I
do wanna point out on the patch, that's
pretty much the same for the save, but
we're just checking those properties. So
our Vendor data model is like extremely
simple. So a PATCH operation is really
kind of not a very good example for that.
But as we had more properties, we would
wanna be checking to see if those are
set on the PATCH operation here. Then
of course, we do have a test
implementation of this. Go ahead and take
a look at that. Now on the test
implementation, I am showing you some new
things here in the testing. So I wanna
point out on line 57 here, Mokito
actually implemented a behavior driven
development syntax. So that should be BDD.
So this is a new syntax that we were not
using before, so this gives us some nice
functionality when we're thinking about
giving one then as in a behavior driven
syntax. It's really helpful. I like
writing my tests this way. It does help
me think about what's happening under
its house, what I want the test to be
actually be doing. So I do have a series
of tests here. And then, I also wanna
point out here on my 96, actually through
the whole test, I'm using assertThat.
So this is also a new type of a JUnit
assertion. I think they introduced this
about two years ago, if memory serves me
right. So you can do assertions and then
use matchers.
And if I remember, I think these are actually Hamcrest
matchers. Double-checked that. Yeah so all the
Hamcrest library. So there's a variety
of matchers that we can use to create the
assertions with. So this is just an
alternate syntax I want want to
introduce you to. So a little bit
different. Trying to show you some things
along the way here that can make your
life easier. Some people prefer just
assertEquals. That's fine. Nothing
wrong with that. This is actually uh
the assertions and the Hamcrest matchers
had a lot of really cool capability, so I
personally will go back and forth
between the two types of method.
Let's see here. Then let's take a look
at the controller implementation. Then
our controller implementation, like this.
So you can see, I am using the @RestController annotation and also
@GetMapping and @ResponseStatus so that it's
gonna get rendered as an object based on
the content type of the request. I wanna point out that I'm using a BASE_URL
again, just like we did on the category
and customer repositories so that
makes our life a little bit easier by
defining that String in one spot. And on
the test, I'm also gonna show you some
new stuff with the controller test. And
this is actually really important. I
don't think I've done this in the course
yet. I am doing it as a integration test.
So now, I'm using the Spring Context. I
wanna show you a couple different
things here. I am running with the
@WebMvcTest, which is gonna bring up a
small segment of the Spring Context and
just for the web front-end. I am also
using it on line 35 @MockBean, so this is
an annotation, that's gonna tell
Mockito and Spring to create a Mockito
Mock and inject it into our test here. So
rather than doing the initMock, we are
asking the Spring Context to create that
Mock for us and inject it into our class.
Also, I'm using @Autowired there on line
38 for MockMvc. I'm specifying that
I want the VendorController class to be
brought in and wired up. So this is a
pretty big contrast. So let's take a look
at the CustomerControllerTest. If we
scroll up to the top there,
remember I'm saying make a Mock there,
and also @InjectMocks, so what's gonna
happen here, with these two is Mockito,
is going to create a Mock here, when we
run the initMocks, and it's also going to
create a CustomerController instance
for us and inject that Mock object in
there. Where in contrast, here, we are
asking a Spring to do everything for us.
So Spring is gonna do the heavy
lifting it managing those. I've
done some refactorings from what we had
before. You can see on the @Before method,
I'm now setting up our objects there
that we're gonna be working with in
the test, and the rest of the test, I
think I'm doing pretty much the same
thing. Except I am using the behavior
driven development syntax for Mockito
here and I'm also doing some more
assertions. I think in the previous
test, I wasn't testing the Mock
interactions as well, so we got some
additional assertions there on all the
tests. So now, if I come over here and run
this, verify that all the tests are
running. One thing I did not do is I
did not add any bootstrapped data. So
let's come in here. I'm gonna pause the
video and add a bootstrap method real
quick. Okay. Jumped ahead and I added in a
new method on our bootstrap class to
load vendors and I'm just creating two
new Vendor objects there. So let's go
ahead and start our application. Got an
error in my test because I changed the
signature of that class, and let's go
ahead and fix that real quick.
Now let's try running this again. So we
are up and running. Let's bring up
Postman. I don't have that. Starting a
Postman and we will just make sure that
we can go to localhost, and get a list of
vendors, and I'm gonna step through everything.
And we can see that we have Vendor 1,
and that is because, let's take a quick
look at Bootstrap. A typo. Remember I said
about cut and paste. So don't cut and
paste at home. Met. Go ahead and compile
this. Okay, that should be working. I'm
gonna go ahead and restart it. So I am
using Spring Boot DevTools.
Sometimes things don't work right. So if
you ever see something out there, what I
do here? So there, you saw as getting an
error saying CategoryMapper not found.
And that's because I needed to compile
it. I did a rebuild on the project and
the IntelliJ must create in that class.
So let's go ahead and try running this
again. We are back up and happy again.
Let's go ahead and test that. And now, I
do have the two vendors coming back in
the list, and if we come over here to our
API specification and if I do a try it
out, you can see that I'm getting the
same JSON. And, part of the assignment I
said not to worry about the metadata
object. So we can implement that at a
later time, as primarily worried about
you guys being able to create the list
of vendors and JSON output. So it's a
fairly large assignment. I hope you guys
found success in it, and hope the tips I
pass along here, you find helpful.